2 – The Presidents’ Gallery
This first gallery is devoted to the history of the companies that contributed to the creation of Safran: Gnome; Le Rhône; Gnome et Rhône; and SNECMA.
The portraits of their leaders are displayed on the right.
Please step closer to the first portrait, that of Louis Seguin. It was with him that everything began: in 1905, Louis Seguin founded the company Gnome, which initially produced a boat engine and, from 1908 onwards, aircraft engines.
The next portrait is that of his direct competitor, Louis Verdet. In 1912, Louis Verdet founded the company Le Rhône. Three years later, the two companies merged, giving birth to Gnome et Rhône, of which Louis Verdet became Managing Director.
Let us now move on to the portrait of Paul-Louis Weiller. An outstanding pilot and a pioneer of aerial photography, he restored the company’s financial situation after the First World War, turning it into the world leader in aircraft engine exports during the interwar period.
After the Second World War, Gnome et Rhône was nationalised and became SNECMA.
Now move forward to the portrait of Henri Desbruères. Henri Desbruères was a key figure in the development of military aircraft after the Second World War. He contributed to the success of the ATAR turbojet engines, which established the reputation of French military aircraft.
Let us also take a look at René Ravaud. In the 1970s, he promoted engines for modern civil aircraft. His decision to cooperate with the American company General Electric proved decisive for the development of SNECMA.
You may recognise the next portrait at which we shall stop. It is that of the industrial leader Louis Gallois, who served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of SNECMA from 1989 to 1992.
And what about Jean-Paul Béchat, a little further on? Jean-Paul Béchat enabled the consolidation of the French aeronautical equipment industry around SNECMA by integrating rocket engines, Turbomeca helicopter engines, Messier-Dowty landing gear, Labinal’s aeronautical activities and Sochata’s service activities. In 2005, Jean-Paul Béchat created Safran, resulting from the merger of SAGEM and SNECMA.
Let us conclude with the portrait of Jean-Paul Herteman, who gave Safran the stature of an international high-technology group. During his tenure, the workforce grew from 30,000 to 70,000 employees.

